README.md, before:

# Söderberg Down Under

## Git strategy

Work with feature branches. Do not squash merge.

### Branch names

The goal is to have one "feature" branch and pull request per issue.

A branch should have the correct prefix for the issue (`fix`, `feat`, `test`), correct issue number (`1`), and description (usually issue title).

| Prefix | Meaning                                           |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| fix    | for fixing a bug                                  |
| feat   | for adding, removing or modifying a feature       |
| test   | for experimenting something which is not an issue |

```sh
git branch <category/reference/description-in-kebab-case>

# e.g.
fix/1/remove-rss
feat/2/add-high-res-images
```

### Commit names

A git commit message should start with a category of change. Pick one of these: `feat`, `fix` or `test`.

| Prefix   | Meaning                                                 |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| fix      | for fixing a bug                                        |
| feat     | for adding, removing or modifying a feature             |
| refactor | for changing code for peformance or convenience purpose |
| chore    | for everything else (docs, formatting, tests, cleanup)  |

```sh
git commit -m '<category: do something; do some other things>'
```

## Code quality

To achieve good code quality, recommended best-practice linting and formatting rules should be followed.

To lint the code, install the ESLint plugin for VS Code or, from the root, run:

```sh
npx eslint .
```

To format the code, install the Prettier plugin for VS Code, and enable the _Format on save_ setting, or, from the root, run:

```sh
npx prettier . --write
```

### Git hooks

To avoid commits where those commands have been missed, a Git `pre-commit` hook file should be added in your local `.git/hooks`.

```sh
#!/bin/sh
FILES=$(git diff --cached --name-only --diff-filter=ACMR | sed 's| |\\ |g')
[ -z "$FILES" ] && exit 0

# Fix lint errors on  all selected files
echo "$FILES" | xargs npx eslint --fix --ext .js,.jsx,.ts,.tsx

if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
  echo "ESLint failed on staged files. Please check your code and try again. You can run ESLint manually via npx eslint"
  exit 1 # exit with failure status
fi

# Prettify all selected files
echo "$FILES" | xargs npx prettier --ignore-unknown --write

# Add back the modified/prettified files to staging
echo "$FILES" | xargs git add

exit 0
```

When the file is created, make it executable by running:

```sh
chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit
```

Commit message:

chore: update readme with conventional commit link

README.md, after:

# Söderberg Down Under

## Git strategy

Work with feature branches. Do not squash merge.

### Branch names

The goal is to have one "feature" branch and pull request per issue.

Commits and pull request should be follow [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary).

A branch should have the correct prefix for the issue (`fix`, `feat`, `test`), correct issue number (`1`), and description (usually issue title).

| Prefix | Meaning                                           |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
| fix    | for fixing a bug                                  |
| feat   | for adding, removing or modifying a feature       |
| test   | for experimenting something which is not an issue |

```sh
git branch <category/reference/description-in-kebab-case>

# e.g.
fix/1/remove-rss
feat/2/add-high-res-images
```

### Commit names

A git commit message should start with a category of change. Pick one of these: `feat`, `fix` or `test`.

| Prefix   | Meaning                                                 |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| fix      | for fixing a bug                                        |
| feat     | for adding, removing or modifying a feature             |
| refactor | for changing code for peformance or convenience purpose |
| chore    | for everything else (docs, formatting, tests, cleanup)  |

```sh
git commit -m '<category: do something; do some other things>'
```

## Code quality

To achieve good code quality, recommended best-practice linting and formatting rules should be followed.

To lint the code, install the ESLint plugin for VS Code or, from the root, run:

```sh
npx eslint .
```

To format the code, install the Prettier plugin for VS Code, and enable the _Format on save_ setting, or, from the root, run:

```sh
npx prettier . --write
```

### Git hooks

To avoid commits where those commands have been missed, a Git `pre-commit` hook file should be added in your local `.git/hooks`.

```sh
#!/bin/sh
FILES=$(git diff --cached --name-only --diff-filter=ACMR | sed 's| |\\ |g')
[ -z "$FILES" ] && exit 0

# Fix lint errors on  all selected files
echo "$FILES" | xargs npx eslint --fix --ext .js,.jsx,.ts,.tsx

if [ $? -ne 0 ]; then
  echo "ESLint failed on staged files. Please check your code and try again. You can run ESLint manually via npx eslint"
  exit 1 # exit with failure status
fi

# Prettify all selected files
echo "$FILES" | xargs npx prettier --ignore-unknown --write

# Add back the modified/prettified files to staging
echo "$FILES" | xargs git add

exit 0
```

When the file is created, make it executable by running:

```sh
chmod +x .git/hooks/pre-commit
```
